link to karaoke: https://www.youtube.com/@singkingkaraoke
(this was for the in class presentation that didn't end up happening unfortunately)

For this project I wanted to do something with projection mapping and when I first was thinking about it, I wanted to have an element of making somehting 3D into something 2D (like taking apicture of something) and then projecting it back onto something 3D. I really like sewing and fashion so my idea was to incorperate that element somehow into the project, but when we did more interaction stuff in class I started to lean more into that (while still doing projection). 

I started the idea of doing something with color and interaction (ie when your hands clap the color changes) but while talking to the professor, I thought about how to be more specific with what I was doing– what did having something projected onto you mean and what different themes came from that? From that came two ideas– one where when you walk into the projection area, there is a random word that is projected onto you (this goes into public perception which was a really cool idea) and the other was a spotlight that followed you around the "stage". I ended up going with the later beause I liked the dramatic element of it but I had originally made it so when you put your hands together, the light turns on, but that motion didn't make as much sense in that context because it looked more like a prayer motion and less like something that would come from performig on a stage. That made my think of karaoke and the theatrical nature of it as well as the idea of duets and focusing on a singular person rather than the whole stage. This would create a sort of makeshift production set. 

Creating the idea for it and the lighting element was pretty simple. Just having a white circle against a black background would look like a spot light when projected. Next, I needed to make it so the circle would track the person's head as they moved around the stage. I used bodyPose for this and make the center of the circle the nose because it was really the only point on the person that was centered. Then, in order to make it so that the "spotlight" only turned on when the person was using the mic, I used the distance between each hand to the nose as a determining factor in whether the spotlight was on (white) or off (black). Setting it up so what the camera and the projection were alined was tricky the first two times but after that it just took a couple of adjustments each time to make sure the spotlight was right on the person. At that point I also edited the code to include two people as the subjects which was a bit hard to do only because I was working alone at home and couldn't test it as frequently (later on my roommate and her boyfriend ended up having to spend a while standing and moving their hands up and down I tested it out). Unfortunately, bause the space I tested it in was smaller than the classroom where I set it up later, there was an issue with the distance tracking once you got around 7 feet away from the camera so that the code saw that your hand and nose were closer together and turned the spotlight on. To fix this, I (or more specifically the professor and I) normalized the distance variable so that it would calculate the same ratio between the hands and nose no matter the distance from the camera. 

 